README.md, before:

# Pelican Art Gallery

Large language models can't generate images. They can only write code. So I asked them to recreate famous paintings as SVG files, using nothing but their memory of what each artwork looks like.

No reference images. No examples. Just the model's training data and whatever it learned about art, composition, and color from text descriptions and code examples.

I tested this across 15+ models released between 2022 and 2025, including OpenAI's GPT series, Anthropic's Claude, Google's Gemini, and open source models from DeepSeek and others.

This project is inspired by [Simon Willison's pelican benchmark](https://simonwillison.net/2025/Jun/6/six-months-in-llms/).

## Quick Start

1. **Clone the repository**

   ```bash
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd genartifacts
   ```

2. **Set up environment**

   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   # Edit .env and add your OPENROUTER_API_KEY
   ```

3. **Install dependencies and run**

   ```bash
   make install
   make dev
   ```

4. **Open your browser** to `http://localhost:8080`

## Development

### Available Commands

```bash
make install      # Install dependencies and tools
make dev          # Development server with hot reload
make build        # Build for production
make run          # Run the built application
make clean        # Clean build artifacts
make test         # Run tests
make fmt          # Format Go code
make lint         # Lint Go code
make help         # Show help
```

### Development Workflow

The project uses Tailwind CSS v4 with a CSS-first configuration:

1. **Styling**: All styling uses Tailwind utility classes directly in templates and JavaScript
2. **CSS Build**: CSS is automatically built during development with `make dev`
3. **Theme**: Custom black/white theme defined in `static/css/input.css` with `@theme` directive
4. **Components**: Workshop interface built with Preact functional components using hooks
5. **No Build Step**: HTM provides JSX-like syntax without requiring compilation

### Project Structure

```
├── main.go              # Application entry point and routing
├── internal/
│   ├── api/            # HTTP handlers for groups, artworks, models
│   ├── config/         # Configuration management
│   ├── database/       # Database operations with normalized schema
│   ├── models/         # Data structures for groups and artworks
│   └── pages/          # Page rendering logic
├── templates/          # HTML templates (homepage, workshop, gallery)
├── static/
│   ├── js/             # Modern ES6 modules
│   │   └── workshop.js # Preact-based workshop interface
│   ├── css/
│   │   ├── input.css   # Tailwind CSS v4 configuration with @theme
│   │   └── output.css  # Generated Tailwind CSS
│   └── favicon.svg     # Site favicon
├── config/             # YAML configuration files
├── bin/               # Built binaries
├── artworks.db        # SQLite database with normalized schema
└── tmp/               # Temporary build files
```

## Usage

1. **Homepage**: Start at the minimal landing page
2. **Workshop**: Create new artwork by:
   - Creating an artwork group with a title and prompt
   - Selecting multiple AI models for the group
   - Adjusting generation parameters (temperature, max tokens)
   - Generating all artworks in the group at once
   - Previewing and managing individual artworks
3. **Gallery**: Browse and manage your artwork collection organized by groups

### Technology Stack

- **Backend**: Go 1.21+ with standard library routing
- **Frontend**: Preact with HTM (no build step required)
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS v4 with CSS-first configuration
- **Database**: SQLite with normalized schema
- **Build**: Makefile-based development workflow

Commit message:

Track artworks database with Git LFS

README.md, after:

# Pelican Art Gallery

Large language models can't generate images. They can only write code. So I asked them to recreate famous paintings as SVG files, using nothing but their memory of what each artwork looks like.

No reference images. No examples. Just the model's training data and whatever it learned about art, composition, and color from text descriptions and code examples.

I tested this across 15+ models released between 2022 and 2025, including OpenAI's GPT series, Anthropic's Claude, Google's Gemini, and open source models from DeepSeek and others.

This project is inspired by [Simon Willison's pelican benchmark](https://simonwillison.net/2025/Jun/6/six-months-in-llms/).

## Quick Start

1. **Clone the repository and fetch LFS assets**

   ```bash
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd pelican-gallery
   git lfs install --local
   git lfs pull
   ```

2. **Set up environment**

   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   # Edit .env and add your OPENROUTER_API_KEY
   ```

3. **Install dependencies and run**

   ```bash
   make install
   make dev
   ```

4. **Open your browser** to `http://localhost:8080`

## Git LFS

This repository stores the SQLite database (`artworks.db`) using [Git Large File Storage](https://git-lfs.com/).

- Run `git lfs install --local` once per clone to enable the LFS hooks.
- After cloning or pulling changes, run `git lfs pull` to download the latest database snapshot.
- When updating `artworks.db`, commit as usual—Git LFS transparently stores the binary contents out of band.

## Development

### Available Commands

```bash
make install      # Install dependencies and tools
make dev          # Development server with hot reload
make build        # Build for production
make run          # Run the built application
make clean        # Clean build artifacts
make test         # Run tests
make fmt          # Format Go code
make lint         # Lint Go code
make help         # Show help
```

### Development Workflow

The project uses Tailwind CSS v4 with a CSS-first configuration:

1. **Styling**: All styling uses Tailwind utility classes directly in templates and JavaScript
2. **CSS Build**: CSS is automatically built during development with `make dev`
3. **Theme**: Custom black/white theme defined in `static/css/input.css` with `@theme` directive
4. **Components**: Workshop interface built with Preact functional components using hooks
5. **No Build Step**: HTM provides JSX-like syntax without requiring compilation

### Project Structure

```
├── main.go              # Application entry point and routing
├── internal/
│   ├── api/            # HTTP handlers for groups, artworks, models
│   ├── config/         # Configuration management
│   ├── database/       # Database operations with normalized schema
│   ├── models/         # Data structures for groups and artworks
│   └── pages/          # Page rendering logic
├── templates/          # HTML templates (homepage, workshop, gallery)
├── static/
│   ├── js/             # Modern ES6 modules
│   │   └── workshop.js # Preact-based workshop interface
│   ├── css/
│   │   ├── input.css   # Tailwind CSS v4 configuration with @theme
│   │   └── output.css  # Generated Tailwind CSS
│   └── favicon.svg     # Site favicon
├── config/             # YAML configuration files
├── bin/               # Built binaries
├── artworks.db        # SQLite database with normalized schema
└── tmp/               # Temporary build files
```

## Usage

1. **Homepage**: Start at the minimal landing page
2. **Workshop**: Create new artwork by:
   - Creating an artwork group with a title and prompt
   - Selecting multiple AI models for the group
   - Adjusting generation parameters (temperature, max tokens)
   - Generating all artworks in the group at once
   - Previewing and managing individual artworks
3. **Gallery**: Browse and manage your artwork collection organized by groups

### Technology Stack

- **Backend**: Go 1.21+ with standard library routing
- **Frontend**: Preact with HTM (no build step required)
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS v4 with CSS-first configuration
- **Database**: SQLite with normalized schema
- **Build**: Makefile-based development workflow
